# Arrays and Strings

```Hash Table```

A hash table is a data structure that maps keys to its value pairs. The key is generated using a hash function.
Hash tables or has maps in Python are implemented through the built-in dictionary data type. The keys of a dictionary in Python are generated by a hashing function. The elements of a dictionary are not ordered and they can be changed. 

In simple implementation, we use an array of linked lists an a hash code function. To insert a key and value, we do following:
1. First, compute the key's hash code. Two different keys could have the same hash code.
2. Then map the hash code to an index in the array. Two different hash code could map the same index.
3. At this index, there is a linked list of keys and values. Store the keys and value in the index. We mush use linkedlist because of collisions: you have to different keys with the same hash code, or two different hash codes that map to the same index.

If the number of collision is very high, the worst case runtime is O(N), where N is the number of keys.
Alternatively, we can implement the hash table with a balanced binary search tree with O(log N) runtime. Less sapce, we can aslo iterate through the keys in order.

```ArrayList```

An ArrayList is an array that resizes itself as needed while still providing O(1) access.
ArrayList in java and list in python are both dynamic arrays. They both have O(1) average indexing time and O(1) average adding an element to the end time.

Array in java is not tuple in python. While it is true that you cannot add elements to both data structures. Python tuple does not support assignment, that is you cannot reassign individual elements in a tuple, while you can in java Array.

```StringBuilder```

In computer programming, a string is traditionally a sequence of characters, either as a literal constant or as some kind of variable.
StringBuilder simply creates a resizable array of all the strings, copying them back to a string only when necessary.
